Response of broiler chicks to diets with bambaranut (Voandzeia subterranea) as a protein source
Effects of reducing postpartum re-mating timeperiod on reproductive performance of the doe
Factors influencing reproduction parameters of ewes Ouled Djellal
Socioeconomic inequalities in child mortality: comparisons across nine developing countries.
Defining and measuring health inequality: an approach based on the distribution of health expectancy.
Public spending on health care in Africa: do the poor benefit?.
Deterioration in the nutritional status of young children and their mothers in Brazzaville, Congo, following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc.
Health system reform and the role of field sites based upon demographic and health surveillance.
Safety of immunization injections in Africa: not simply a problem of logistics.
Monitoring signals for vaccine safety: the assessment of individual adverse event reports by an expert advisory committee.
Simian virus 40, poliovirus vaccines, and human cancer: research progress versus media and public interests.
Directly observed treatment, short-course strategy and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: are any modifications required?.
Preventing trachoma through environmental sanitation: a review of the evidence base.
Disease eradication as a public health strategy: a case study of poliomyelitis eradication.
Polio as a platform: using national immunization days to deliver vitamin A supplements.
Poliomyelitis surveillance: the model used in India for polio eradication.
Stopping poliovirus vaccination after eradication: issues and challenges.
The role of son preference in reproductive behaviour in Pakistan.
A proposal to declare neurocysticercosis an international reportable disease.
The burden of mental disorders: a comparison of methods between the Australian burden of disease studies and the Global Burden of Disease study.
Why does the burden of disease persist?
Mental health policy development in Africa.
Towards a global alcohol policy: alcohol, public health and the role of WHO.
Nutritional status of breastfed infants in rural Zambia: comparison of the National Center for Health Statistics growth reference versus the WHO 12-month breastfed pooled data set.
Global public-private partnerships: part I - a new development in health?.
Making abortions safe: a matter of good public health policy and practice.
Maternal mortality in rural Gambia: levels, causes and contributing factors.
Perinatal mortality attributable to complications of childbirth in Matlab, Bangladesh.
Measuring reproductive health: review of community-based approaches to assessing morbidity.
Health sector reform and reproductive health in Latin America and the Caribbean: strengthening the links.
Antibody response of patients after postexposure rabies vaccination with small intradermal doses of purified chick embryo cell vaccine or purified Vero cell rabies vaccine.
A framework for assessing the performance of health systems.
Benchmarks of fairness for health care reform: a policy tool for developing countries.
Benchmarks for health expenditures, services and outcomes in Africa during the 1990s.
Make or buy decisions in the production of health care goods and services: new insights from institutional economics and organizational theory.
The role of the hospital in a changing environment.
The use of private-sector contracts for primary health care: theory, evidence and lessons for low-income and middle-income countries.
Tobacco use by youth: a surveillance report from the Global Youth Tobacco Survey project.
Building the evidence base for global tobacco control.
Tobacco industry tactics for resisting public policy on health.
WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control: a global ‘‘good for public health.
Pattern of susceptibility to measles in Italy.
Low-cost technology for screening uterine cervical cancer.
Validation of spot-testing kits to determine iodine content in salt.
Why aircraft disinsection?.
New contraceptive eligibility checklists for provision of combined oral contraceptives and depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate in community-based programmes.
Antiretroviral interventions to reduce mother-to-child transmission of human immunodeficiency virus: challenges for health systems, communities and society.
Overlooked opportunities for investing in health research and development.
Indoor air pollution in developing countries: a major environmental and public health challenge.
Guidelines for the microbiological quality of treated wastewater used in agriculture: recommendations for revising WHO guidelines.
Climate change and vector-borne diseases: a regional analysis.
The decline in child mortality: a reappraisal.
Trends in under-5 mortality rates and the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Is malnutrition declining?
Factors associated with trends in infant and child mortality in developing countries during the 1990s.
Associations between socioeconomic status and cardiovascular risk factors in an urban population in China.
Association of diarrhoea and upper respiratory infections with weight and height gains in Bangladeshi children aged 5 to 11 years.
Epidemiology of paediatric surgical admissions to a government referral hospital in the Gambia.
Information systems: the key to evidence-based health practice.
Impediments to global surveillance of infectious diseases: consequences of open reporting in a global economy.
Comparison of house spraying and insecticide-treated nets for malaria control.
Molecular entomology and prospects for malaria control.
Using a geographical information system to plan a malaria control programme in South Africa.
Safety of community drinking-water and outbreaks of waterborne enteric disease: Israel, 1976-97.
Pilot study of the use of community volunteers to distribute azithromycin for trachoma control in Ghana.
The use of hospital-based nurses for the surveillance of potential disease outbreaks.
Maternal and congenital syphilis in Bolivia, 1996: prevalence and risk factors.
Community-based trials of sexually transmitted disease treatment: repercussions for epidemiology and HIV prevention.
Awareness of eye diseases in an urban population in southern India.
Local problems, local solutions: improving tuberculosis control at the district level in Malawi.
Situation analysis for cervical cancer diagnosis and treatment in East, Central and Southern African countries.
Coping with changing conditions: alternative strategies for the delivery of maternal and child health and family planning services in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Estimates of maternal mortality for 1995.
Cost-effectiveness of trachoma control measures: comparing targeted household treatment and mass treatment of children.
Blindness prevention programmes: past, present, and future.
The SAFE strategy for the elimination of trachoma by 2020: will it work?.
Prevention of blindness and priorities for the future.
Keeping clean water clean in a Malawi refugee camp: a randomized intervention trial.
Mass measles vaccination in urban Burkina Faso, 1998.
Leprosy in China: epidemiological trends between 1949 and 1998.
Family history: an opportunity for early interventions and improved control of hypertension, obesity and diabetes.
Safety of the intradermal Copenhagen 1331 BCG vaccine in neonates in Durban, South Africa.
Health services under the General Agreement on Trade in Services.
Comparison of generic and proprietary sodium stibogluconate for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya.
Estimates of the maternal mortality ratio in two districts of the Brong-Ahafo region, Ghana.
Prevalence of vitamin A deficiency in children aged 6-9 years in Wukro, northern Ethiopia.
The impact of a clinical training unit on integrated child health care in Mexico.
Transmission of Helicobacter pylori: a role for food?.
Prevalence, awareness, treatment and control of hypertension among the elderly in Bangladesh and India: a multicentre study.
Estimating the prevalence of anaemia: a comparison of three methods.
Evidence of behaviour change following a hygiene promotion programme in Burkina Faso.
Iodine concentration in household salt in South Africa.
The burden of disease in Maputo City, Mozambique: registered and autopsied deaths in 1994.
Maternal mortality at the end of a decade: signs of progress?.
Has oral fluid the potential to replace serum for the evaluation of population immunity levels?: a study of measles, rubella and hepatitis B in rural Ethiopia.
Neonatal mortality of low-birth-weight infants in Bangladesh.
Efficacy trial of Vi polysaccharide vaccine against typhoid fever in south-western China.
Operational issues in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV-1 in Abidjan, Côte dIvoire, 1998-99.
Every death counts: measurement of maternal mortality via a census.
Reinsurance of health insurance for the informal sector.
Inherited haemoglobin disorders: an increasing global health problem.
Private investment in AIDS vaccine development: obstacles and solutions.
Perspectives on stimulating industrial research and development for neglected infectious diseases.
Public-private health partnerships: a strategy for WHO.
Mass psychogenic illness following tetanus-diphtheria toxoid vaccination in Jordan.
Comparison of safety and immunogenicity of a Vi polysaccharide typhoid vaccine with a whole-cell killed vaccine in Malaysian Air Force recruits.
Globalization and health: results and options.
Information and communication technologies and health in low income countries: the potential and the constraints.
Globalization and occupational health: a perspective from southern Africa.
Globalization and health: a framework for analysis and action.
Levels of cardiovascular disease risk factors in Singapore following a national intervention programme.
Diagnosis of malaria in a remote area of the Philippines: comparison of techniques and their acceptance by health workers and the community.
Noncommunicable diseases in sub-Saharan Africa: where do they feature in the health research agenda?.
Community-based noncommunicable disease interventions: lessons from developed countries for developing ones.
Can we prevent cardiovascular diseases in low- and middle-income countries?.
Malaria control in Bungoma District, Kenya: a survey of home treatment of children with fever, bednet use and attendance at antenatal clinics.
User fees, health staff incentives, and service utilization in Kabarole District, Uganda.
Prevalence of impairments, disabilities, handicaps and quality of life in the general population: a review of recent literature.
Malathion resistance and prevalence of the malathion carboxylesterase mechanism in populations of mosquito vectors of disease in Sri Lanka.
Syndromic treatment of gonococcal and chlamydial infections in women seeking primary care for the genital discharge syndrome: decision-making.
Diagnosis and management of febrile children using the WHO/UNICEF guidelines for IMCI in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Fighting HIV/AIDS: is success possible?.
An HIV vaccine: how and when?.
Community-based treatment of advanced HIV disease: introducing DOT-HAART (directly observed therapy with highly active antiretroviral therapy).
Death rate variation in US subpopulations.
Comparison of cohort smoking intensities in Denmark and the Netherlands.
The risk of Ascaris lumbricoides infection in children as an environmental health indicator to guide preventive activities in Caparaó and Alto Caparaó, Brazil.
The implications of health sector reform for human resources development.
Poverty and health sector inequalities.
Ethics in international health research: a perspective from the developing world.
Basic patterns in national health expenditure.
Debt relief and public health spending in heavily indebted poor countries.
Reproductive tract infections: prevalence and risk factors in rural Bangladesh.
Structure and performance of infectious disease surveillance and response, United Republic of Tanzania, 1998.
Vaccine-associated paralytic poliomyelitis in India during 1999: decreased risk despite massive use of oral polio vaccine.
A district-based audit of the causes and circumstances of maternal deaths in South Kalimantan, Indonesia.
Economic analyses of rubella and rubella vaccines: a global review.
Universal immunization of infants with low doses of a low-cost, plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine in South Africa.
The contribution of breast milk to toddler diets in western Kenya.
Estimating human rabies mortality in the United Republic of Tanzania from dog bite injuries.
Questioning the indicators of need for obstetric care.
Early detection and response to meningococcal disease epidemics in sub-Saharan Africa: appraisal of the WHO strategy.
Using mortuary statistics in the development of an injury surveillance system in Ghana.
The treatment gap and primary health care for people with epilepsy in rural Gambia.
Trends and spatial distribution of deaths of children aged 12-60 months in São Paulo, Brazil, 1980-98.
Definition and measurement of reproductive health.
The DOTS strategy in China: results and lessons after 10 years.
Cost-effectiveness of community health workers in tuberculosis control in Bangladesh.
Rapid DOTS expansion in India.
The research agenda for improving health policy, systems performance, and service delivery for tuberculosis control: a WHO perspective.
Preventing tuberculosis among health workers in Malawi.
Street foods in Accra, Ghana: how safe are they?.
An epidemiological study of RSV infection in the Gambia.
Skill mix in the health care workforce: reviewing the evidence.
Mass measles immunization campaign: experience in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China.
The use of models in the estimation of disease epidemiology.
Determining median urinary iodine concentration that indicates adequate iodine intake at population level.
Cross-national comparability of burden of disease estimates: the European Disability Weights Project.
Control of malaria: a successful experience from Viet Nam.
Improving equity in the provision of primary health care: lessons from decentralized planning and management in Namibia.
How to reach clients of female sex workers: a survey by surprise in brothels in Dakar, Senegal.
Rating maternal and neonatal health services in developing countries.
Promotion of well-switching to mitigate the current arsenic crisis in Bangladesh.
Understanding levels of morbidity and hospitalization in Kerala, India.
Factors associated with elevated blood lead concentrations in children in Karachi, Pakistan.
Use of remote sensing and a geographical information system in a national helminth control programme in Chad.
Sex- and age- specific relations between economic development, economic inequality and homicide rates in people aged 0-24 years: a cross-sectional analysis.
Evaluation of the Haemoglobin Colour Scale and comparison with the HemoCue haemoglobin assay.
The impact of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative on the financing of routine immunization: case studies in Bangladesh, Côte dIvoire, and Morocco.
Using the two-source capture-recapture method to estimate the incidence of acute flaccid paralysis in Victoria, Australia.
Model-based estimates of risks of disease transmission and economic costs of seven injection devices in sub-Saharan Africa.
Mortality patterns in the Russian Federation: indirect technique using widowhood data.
Risk of death following pregnancy in rural Nepal.
Emergency medical care in developing countries: is it worthwhile?.
Physical activity during leisure and commuting in Tianjin, China.
International law and communicable diseases.
Biomedicine and international human rights law: in search of a global consensus.
International environmental law and global public health.
Compatible poliomyelitis cases in India during 2000.
The cost of diabetes in Latin America and the Caribbean.
A comparison of the efficacy of single doses of albendazole, ivermectin, and diethylcarbamazine alone or in combinations against Ascaris and Trichuris spp..
Domestic violence in rural Uganda: evidence from a community-based study.
Contribution of breastfeeding to vitamin A nutrition of infants: a simulation model.
Decentralization and equity of resource allocation: evidence from Colombia and Chile.
Use of microencapsulated iron(II) fumarate sprinkles to prevent recurrence of anaemia in infants and young children at high risk.
Shifting the burden: the private sectors response to the AIDS epidemic in Africa.
Hypothetical performance of syndrome-based management of acute paediatric admissions of children aged more than 60 days in a Kenyan district hospital.
Management of acute respiratory infections by community health volunteers: experience of Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC).
The global burden of diarrhoeal disease, as estimated from studies published between 1992 and 2000.
The Singapore Tuberculosis Elimination Programme: the first five years.
Non-specific effect of measles vaccination on overall child mortality in an area of rural India with high vaccination coverage: a population-based case-control study.
Self-treatment of malaria in rural communities, Butajira, southern Ethiopia.
The cost-effectiveness of policies for the safe and appropriate use of injection in healthcare settings.
A new face for private providers in developing countries: what implications for public health?.
Cost-effectiveness of routine immunization to control Japanese encephalitis in Shanghai, China.
Treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis with aminosidine (paromomycin) ointment: double-blind, randomized trial in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Evidence on the use of paracetamol in febrile children.
Including health in transport policy agendas: the role of health impact assessment analyses and procedures in the European experience.
Towards health impact assessment of drinking-water privatization: the example of waterborne carcinogens in North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany).
Health and equity impacts of a large oil project in Africa.
Health impact assessment needs in south-east Asian countries.
Importation and circulation of poliovirus in Bulgaria in 2001.
Best infection control practices for intradermal, subcutaneous, and intramuscular needle injections.
Cost of work-related injuries in insured workplaces in Lebanon.
Management of severely ill children at first-level health facilities in sub-Saharan Africa when referral is difficult.
Poverty, equity, human rights and health.
Labour complications remain the most important risk factors for perinatal mortality in rural Kenya.
Annual risk of tuberculous infection in the northern zone of India.
Injury prevention counselling to improve safety practices by parents in Mexico.
Poverty and common mental disorders in developing countries.
Community wells to mitigate the arsenic crisis in Bangladesh.
Burden of major musculoskeletal conditions.
Rehabilitation of landmine victims : the ultimate challenge.
Dried venous blood samples for the detection and quantification of measles IgG using a commercial enzyme immunoassay.
Risk factors for early infant mortality in Sarlahi district, Nepal.
Meta-analysis of residential exposure to radon gas and lung cancer.
Meningococcal meningitis in sub-Saharan Africa: the case for mass and routine vaccination with available polysaccharide vaccines.
Influence of pesticide regulation on acute poisoning deaths in Sri Lanka.
Knowledge for better health : a conceptual framework and foundation for health research systems.
Exercise interventions: defusing the worlds osteoporosis time bomb.
Human health benefits from livestock vaccination for brucellosis: case study.
Can developing countries achieve adequate improvements in child health outcomes without engaging the private sector?.
Progress with new malaria vaccines.
Cost analysis of post-polio certification immunization policies.
Certification of polio eradication: process and lessons learned.
Framework for evaluating the risks of paralytic poliomyelitis after global interruption of wild poliovirus transmission.
A developing country perspective on vaccine-associated paralytic poliomyelitis.
Child mortality in a West African population protected with insecticide-treated curtains for a period of up to 6 years.
Hepatitis B vaccine freezing in the Indonesian cold chain: evidence and solutions.
Patient advocacy and arthritis: moving forward.
Regulatory pathways for vaccines for developing countries.
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context?.
Condom use within marriage: a neglected HIV intervention.
Effectiveness of residual spraying of peridomestic ecotopes with deltamethrin and permethrin on Triatoma infestans in rural western Argentina: a district-wide randomized trial.
Tobacco smoking and oral clefts: a meta-analysis.
Use of medicinal plants and pharmaceuticals by indigenous communities in the Bolivian Andes and Amazon.
Rubella serosurveys at three Aravind Eye Hospitals in Tamil Nadu, India.
Do family-planning workers in China support provision of sexual and reproductive health services to unmarried young people?.
Reconsidering empirical cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for infants exposed to HIV infection.
Signs of illness in Kenyan infants aged less than 60 days.
Cost-effectiveness analysis of cataract surgery: a global and regional analysis.
A simplified screening strategy for thalassaemia and haemoglobin E in rural communities in south-east Asia.
Genomics knowledge and equity: a global public goods perspective of the patent system.
Maternal and congenital syphilis programmes: case studies in Bolivia, Kenya and South Africa.
The prevention and management of congenital syphilis: an overview and recommendations.
Diagnostic tools for preventing and managing maternal and congenital syphilis: an overview.
Effectiveness of condoms in preventing sexually transmitted infections.
Reproductive tract infections in rural women from the highlands, jungle, and coastal regions of Peru.
Secondary prevention of stroke : results from the Southern Africa Stroke Prevention Initiative (SASPI) study.
Wheezing conditions in early childhood: prevalence and risk factors in the city of São Paulo, Brazil.
Chinas public health-care system: facing the challenges.
Selective mass treatment with ivermectin to control intestinal helminthiases and parasitic skin diseases in a severely affected population.
Public-private mix for DOTS implementation: what makes it work?.
Migration of health-care workers from developing countries: strategic approaches to its management.
Plumbing the brain drain.
Incremental cost-effectiveness of supplementary immunization activities to prevent neonatal tetanus in Pakistan.
Improving immunization equity through a public-private partnership in Cambodia.
Variation in the costs of delivering routine immunization services in Peru.
The costs, effects and cost-effectiveness of strategies to increase coverage of routine immunizations in low- and middle-income countries: systematic review of the grey literature.
Does earmarked donor funding make it more or less likely that developing countries will allocate their resources towards programmes that yield the greatest health benefits?.
Estimating the economic value to societies of the impact of health research: a critical review.
From research to practice: the example of antenatal care in Thailand.
Making research matter: a civil society perspective on health research.
Beyond informed consent.
Ownership of knowledge: the role of patents in pharmaceutical R&D.
Back to basics: does decentralization improve health system performance?
Tuberculosis situation among tribal population of Car Nicobar, India, 15 years after intensive tuberculosis control project and implementation of a national tuberculosis programme.
The laboratory confirmation of suspected measles cases in settings of low measles transmission: conclusions from the experience in the Americas.
Health information technology in primary health care in developing countries: a literature review.
Global estimate of the incidence of clinical pneumonia among children under five years of age.
Respiratory syncytial virus infection: denominator-based studies in Indonesia, Mozambique, Nigeria and South Africa.
The antimicrobial resistance containment and surveillance approach - a public health tool.
Socioeconomic status and obesity in adult populations of developing countries: a review.
Randomized controlled trial of standard versus double dose cotrimoxazole for childhood pneumonia in Pakistan.
Helping northern Ethiopian communities reduce childhood mortality: population-based intervention trial.
Schistosomiasis control in China: the impact of a 10-year World Bank Loan Project (1992-2001).
Participation in health impact assessment: objectives, methods and core values.
Mental and social health during and after acute emergencies: emerging consensus?.
The global burden of disease attributable to low consumption of fruit and vegetables: implications for the global strategy on diet.
The global distribution of risk factors by poverty level.
Prevention and treatment of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in resource-limited settings.
Monitoring low birth weight: an evaluation of international estimates and an updated estimation procedure.
Distributing insecticide-treated bednets during measles vaccination: a low-cost means of achieving high and equitable coverage.
Poverty, child undernutrition and morbidity: new evidence from India.
Should nevirapine be used to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV among women of unknown serostatus?.
Staff training and ambulatory tuberculosis treatment outcomes: a cluster randomized controlled trial in South Africa.
Polio eradication: mobilizing and managing the human resources.
Ethical issues in health workforce development.
Human resources for the control of road traffic injury.
Understanding dengue pathogenesis: implications for vaccine design.
Modelling the effectiveness of financing policies to address underutilization of childrens health services in Nepal.
Standardized interpretation of paediatric chest radiographs for the diagnosis of pneumonia in epidemiological studies.
Does the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness cost more than routine care?
Monitoring equity in immunization coverage.
Infant feeding patterns and risks of death and hospitalization in the first half of infancy: multicentre cohort study.
Operational and economic evaluation of an NGO-led sexually transmitted infections intervention: north-western Cambodia.
Reliability of data on caesarean sections in developing countries.
National maternal mortality ratio in Egypt halved between 1992-93 and 2000.
Effectiveness of the first district-wide programme for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV in South Africa.
The immunization data quality audit: verifying the quality and consistency of immunization monitoring systems.
Current global iodine status and progress over the last decade towards the elimination of iodine deficiency.
An evidence-based approach to benchmarking the fairness of health-sector reform in developing countries.
The public health implications of asthma.
Health information systems: the foundations of public health.
Harmonizing health information systems with information systems in other social and economic sectors.
The use of a computerized database to monitor vaccine safety in Viet Nam.
Evaluating national cause-of-death statistics: principles and application to the case of China.
Health information system reform in South Africa: developing an essential data set.
Areca (betel) nut chewing habit among high-school children in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (Micronesia).
The effective use of fluorides in public health.
Oral health information systems - towards measuring progress in oral health promotion and disease prevention.
Oral lesions in infection with human immunodeficiency virus.
Strategies and approaches in oral disease prevention and health promotion.
Estimating the burden of shigellosis in Thailand: 36-month population-based surveillance study.
Using lot quality-assurance sampling and area sampling to identify priority areas for trachoma control: Viet Nam.
Dual job holding by public sector health professionals in highly resource-constrained settings: problem or solution?.
Alcohol consumption and increased mortality in Russian men and women: a cohort study based on the mortality of relatives.
Role of socioeconomic markers and state prohibition policy in predicting alcohol consumption among men and women in India: a multilevel statistical analysis.
Differences in willingness to pay for artemisinin-based combinations or monotherapy: experiences from the United Republic of Tanzania.
Treatment of tuberculosis: present status and future prospects.
The epidemiology of trachoma in Eastern Equatoria and Upper Nile States, southern Sudan.
Development assistance for health in central and eastern European Region.
Integration of basic dermatological care into primary health care services in Mali.
Priorities for research to take forward the health equity policy agenda.
Reducing diarrhoea in Guatemalan children: randomized controlled trial of flocculant-disinfectant for drinking-water.
Health-systems efficiency in the Russian Federation: tuberculosis control.
Child health in complex emergencies.
Enhanced disease surveillance through private health care sector cooperation in Karachi, Pakistan: experience from a vaccine trial.
Comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of a rapid immunochromatographic test and the rapid plasma reagin test for antenatal syphilis screening in Mozambique.
Tuberculosis case-finding through a village outreach programme in a rural setting in southern Ethiopia: community randomized trial.
Hybrid data capture for monitoring patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in urban Botswana.
Re-emerging schistosomiasis in hilly and mountainous areas of Sichuan, China.
How should we measure maternal mortality in the developing world?
Assessing adult mortality in HIV-1-afflicted Zimbabwe (1998 -2003).
Assessing a new approach to verbal autopsy interpretation in a rural Ethiopian community: the InterVA model.
Facility-based maternal death reviews: effects on maternal mortality in a district hospital in Senegal.
A critical assessment of mortality statistics in Thailand: potential for improvements.
Failure of standard antimicrobial therapy in children aged 3-59 months with mild or asymptomatic HIV infection and severe pneumonia.
Maternal mortality in St. Petersburg, Russian Federation.
A method for deriving leading causes of death.
Improved triage and emergency care for children reduces inpatient mortality in a resource-constrained setting.
Translating words into actions: are governments acting on the advice of the World health report?.
Managing the effect of TRIPS on availability of priority vaccines.
Essential medicines and human rights: what can they learn from each other?.
Data sharing and intellectual property in a genomic epidemiology network: policies for large-scale research collaboration.
Implications of bilateral free trade agreements on access to medicines.
Cost and cost-effectiveness of PPM-DOTS for tuberculosis control: evidence from India.
Multicentre study of acute alcohol use and non-fatal injuries: data from the WHO collaborative study on alcohol and injuries.
Health transitions in sub-Saharan Africa: overview of mortality trends in children under 5 years old (1950-2000).
Is the current public health message on UV exposure correct?.
Costs of measures to control tuberculosis/HIV in public primary care facilities in Cape Town, South Africa.
The impact of breastfeeding on the health of HIV-positive mothers and their children in sub-Saharan Africa.
Trend and disease burden of bacillary dysentery in China (1991-2000).
The Global Fund Secretariats suspension of funding to Uganda: how could this have been avoided?.
The knowledge-value chain: a conceptual framework for knowledge translation in health.
Using knowledge brokering to promote evidence-based policy-making: the need for support structures.
Assessing country-level efforts to link research to action.
Knowledge mapping as a technique to support knowledge translation.
An interactive integrative approach to translating knowledge and building a learning organization in health services management.
From research evidence to policy: mental health care in Viet Nam.
Integration of mass drug administration programmes in Nigeria: the challenge of schistosomiasis.
Causes of stillbirths and early neonatal deaths: data from 7993 pregnancies in six developing countries.
Community surveys and risk factor analysis of human alveolar and cystic echinococcosis in Ningxia Hui autonomous region, China.
The syndromic management of vaginal discharge using singledose treatments: a randomized controlled trial in West Africa.
Rare essentials: drugs for rare diseases as essential medicines.
Treatment outcomes and risk factors for relapse in patients with early-stage human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) in the Republic of the Congo.
Are health interventions implemented where they are most needed?
Danger signs of neonatal illnesses: perceptions of caregivers and health workers in northern India.
Understanding enrolment in community health insurance in sub-Saharan Africa: a population-based case-control study in rural Burkina Faso.
Contracting but not without caution: experience with outsourcing of health services in countries of the Eastern Mediterranean Region.
Performance-based financing and changing the district health system: experience from Rwanda.
The benefits of setting the ground rules and regulating contracting practices.
Is contracting a form of privatization?.
Estimating cause-specific mortality from community- and facility-based data sources in the United Republic of Tanzania: options and implications for mortality burden estimates.
Use of weight-for-age-data to optimize tablet strength and dosing regimens for a new fixed-dose artesunate-amodiaquine combination for treating falciparum malaria.
Socioeconomic disadvantage and changes in health risk behaviours in Australia: 1989-90 to 2001.
Responsive parenting: interventions and outcomes.
Association of physical activity and dietary behaviours in relation to the body mass index in a national sample of Iranian children and adolescents: CASPIAN Study.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection patterns and risk behaviours in different population groups and provinces in Viet Nam.
A proposal for measuring the degree of public health-sensitivity of patent legislation in the context of the WTO TRIPS Agreement.
Using a fingerprint recognition system in a vaccine trial to avoid misclassification.
Unwanted fertility among the poor: an inequity?.
Progression to WHO criteria for antiretroviral therapy in a 7-year cohort of adult HIV-1 seroconverters in Abidjan, Côte dIvoire.
The prevalence of HIV, HBV and HCV among Filipino blood donors and overseas work visa applicants.
A balanced scorecard for health services in Afghanistan.
Malawis contribution to 3 by 5: achievements and challenges.
The importance of militaries from developing countries in global infectious disease surveillance.
Foreign policy matters: a normative view of the G8 and population health.
Health and foreign policy: influences of migration and population mobility.
Health impact assessment, human rights and global public policy: a critical appraisal.
Health imperatives in foreign policy: the case of Malaysia.
Determinants of womens participation in cervical cancer screening trial, Maharashtra, India.
The availability and affordability of selected essential medicines for chronic diseases in six low- and middle-income countries.
Trichomoniasis and bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy: inadequately managed with the syndromic approach.
Improving national data collection systems from voluntary counselling and testing centres in Kenya.
Planning to improve global health: the next decade of tuberculosis control.
Roles of laboratories and laboratory systems in effective tuberculosis programmes.
Did we reach the 2005 targets for tuberculosis control?.
Reaching the targets for tuberculosis control: the impact of HIV.
Critical evaluation of the Global DOTS Expansion Plan.
Standard deviation of anthropometric Z-scores as a data quality assessment tool using the 2006 WHO growth standards: a cross country analysis.
Assessment of the age-specific disability weight of chronic schistosomiasis japonica.
Global comparative assessments of life expectancy: the impact of migration with reference to Australia.
Global eradication of polio: the case for finishing the job.
Prevalence, intensity and associated morbidity of Schistosoma japonicum infection in the Dongting Lake region, China.
Pneumonia case-finding in the RESPIRE Guatemala indoor air pollution trial: standardizing methods for resource-poor settings.
True outcomes for patients on antiretroviral therapy who are lost to follow-up in Malawi.
Reducing vector-borne disease by empowering farmers in integrated vector management.
Evaluating the potential impact of the new Global Plan to Stop TB: Thailand, 2004-2005.
Catastrophic and poverty impacts of health payments: results from national household surveys in Thailand.
A comprehensive assessment of maternal deaths in Argentina: translating multicentre collaborative research into action.
Resistance and renewal: health sector reform and Cambodias national tuberculosis programme.
Risk of arsenic-related skin lesions in Bangladeshi villages at relatively low exposure: a report from Gonoshasthaya Kendra.
Measuring health inequalities between genders and age groups with realization of potential life years (RePLY).
The high burden of injuries in South Africa.
Towards sustainable delivery of health services in Afghanistan: options for the future.
Improving tuberculosis case detection rate with a lay informant questionnaire: an experience from the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic.
Delivery settings and caesarean section rates in China.
Contraceptive injections by community health workers in Uganda: a nonrandomized community trial.
Are skilled birth attendants really skilled?
The Chilean infant mortality decline: improvement for whom?
A systematic review of inequalities in the use of maternal health care in developing countries: examining the scale of the problem and the importance of context.
Routine offer of antenatal HIV testing (opt-out approach) to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV in urban Zimbabwe.
Mental health reform in the Russian Federation: an integrated approach to achieve social inclusion and recovery.
Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria during pregnancy in central Mozambique.
Mapping Africas advanced public health education capacity: the AfriHealth project.
Capacity-building for public health: http://peoples-uni.org.
International perspectives on the ethics and regulation of human cell and tissue transplantation.
The state of the international organ trade: a provisional picture based on integration of available information.
Global costs of attaining the Millennium Development Goal for water supply and sanitation.
Estimating the costs of achieving the WHO-UNICEF Global Immunization Vision and Strategy, 2006-2015.
How much is not enough?
Monitoring effectiveness of programmes to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission in lower-income countries.
Increasing tuberculosis case detection: lessons from the Republic of Moldova.
Cost-effectiveness of malaria diagnostic methods in sub-Saharan Africa in an era of combination therapy.
Comparison of rubella seroepidemiology in 17 countries: progress towards international disease control targets.
Clinical assessment and treatment in paediatric wards in the north-east of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Resistance to implementing policy change: the case of Ukraine.
Stillbirth in rural Bangladesh: arsenic exposure and other etiological factors: a report from Gonoshasthaya Kendra.
Reconstructing historical changes in the force of infection of dengue fever in Singapore: implications for surveillance and control.
Acute pesticide poisoning: a proposed classification tool.
Strategies for implementing the new International Health Regulations in federal countries.
How can we achieve global equity in provision of renal replacement therapy?.
A study of typhoid fever in five asian countries: disease burden and implications for controls.
Disease burden and health-care clinic attendances for young children in remote aboriginal communities of northern Australia.
Acceptability of routine HIV counselling and testing, and HIV seroprevalence in Ugandan hospitals.
Delayed care seeking for fatal pneumonia in children aged under five years in Uganda: a case-series study.
Implementation of an oxygen concentrator system in district hospital paediatric wards throughout Malawi.
Acute lower respiratory infections in childhood: opportunities for reducing the global burden through nutritional interventions.
Safety profile of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines: systematic review of pre- and post-licensure data.
Indoor air pollution from unprocessed solid fuel use and pneumonia risk in children aged under five years: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Epidemiology and etiology of childhood pneumonia.
Anthropometric and immunological success of antiretroviral therapy and prediction of virological success in west African adults.
Implementing community-based perinatal care: results from a pilot study in rural Pakistan.
Evaluating the WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems by comparing mental health policies in four countries.
Global epidemiology of haemoglobin disorders and derived service indicators.
Lack of active follow-up of cancer patients in Chennai, India: implications for population-based survival estimates.
Funding agencies in low- and middle-income countries: support for knowledge translation.
Schizophrenia treatment in the developing world: an interregional and multinational cost-effectiveness analysis.
Early loss of HIV-infected patients on potent antiretroviral therapy programmes in lower-income countries.
Using human rights to improve maternal and neonatal health: history, connections and a proposed practical approach.
Denaturalizing scarcity: a strategy of enquiry for public- health ethics.
Demographic and health surveillance: longitudinal ethical considerations.
A personalist approach to public-health ethics.
Health-sector responses to intimate partner violence in low- and middle-income settings: a review of current models, challenges and opportunities.
Antiretroviral therapy and early mortality in South Africa.
Declining HIV prevalence among young pregnant women in Lusaka, Zambia.
Estimating child mortality due to diarrhoea in developing countries.
Methods of suicide: international suicide patterns derived from the WHO mortality database.
Is mass treatment the appropriate schistosomiasis elimination strategy?.
Two-year impact of single praziquantel treatment on infection in the national control programme on schistosomiasis in Burkina Faso.
Impact of an integrated nutrition and health programme on neonatal mortality in rural northern India.
Effects of mutual health organizations on use of priority health-care services in urban and rural Mali: a case-control study.
Coping with out-of-pocket health payments: empirical evidence from 15 African countries.
Development assistance for health: should policy-makers worry about its macroeconomic impact?.
Are current debt relief initiatives an option for scaling up health financing in beneficiary countries?.
Can countries of the WHO African Region wean themselves off donor funding for health?.
Effect of presumptive co-trimoxazole prophylaxis on pneumococcal colonization rates, seroepidemiology and antibiotic resistance in Zambian infants: a longitudinal cohort study.
Epidemiological impact of a nationwide measles immunization campaign in Viet Nam: a critical review.
Global campaign against epilepsy: assessment of a demonstration project in rural China.
Understanding the decline of mean systolic blood pressure in Japan: an analysis of pooled data from the National Nutrition Survey, 1986-2002.
Noncommunicable disease mortality and life expectancy in immigrants to Israel from the former Soviet Union: country of origin compared with host country.
Do lifestyle interventions work in developing countries?
Provision of abortion by mid-level providers: international policy, practice and perspectives.
Laboratory confirmation of measles in elimination settings: experience from the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 2003.
Further efforts needed to achieve measles elimination in Germany: results of an outbreak investigation.
Cost-effectiveness of malaria intermittent preventive treatment in infants (IPTi) in Mozambique and the United Republic of Tanzania.
How to establish a successful revolving drug fund: the experience of Khartoum state in the Sudan.
Epidermal parasitic skin diseases: a neglected category of poverty-associated plagues.
Cost to government health-care services of treating acute self-poisonings in a rural district in Sri Lanka.
High incidence of childhood pneumonia at high altitudes in Pakistan: a longitudinal cohort study.
Use of active management of the third stage of labour in seven developing countries.
The health worker shortage in Africa: are enough physicians and nurses being trained?.
Limitations of methods for measuring out-of-pocket and catastrophic private health expenditures.
Emergency triage assessment for hypoxaemia in neonates and young children in a Kenyan hospital: an observational study.
Financial barriers to HIV treatment in Yaoundé, Cameroon: first results of a national cross-sectional survey.
The persistence of tuberculosis in the age of DOTS: reassessing the effect of case detection.
Promoting the health of marginalized populations in Ecuador through international collaboration and educational innovations.
Severe physical punishment: risk of mental health problems for poor urban children in Brazil.
Child maltreatment prevention: a systematic review of reviews.
